PASSWD(1)                    User Commands                    PASSWD(1)

NAME
    passwd - Modify a user password.

SYNOPSIS
    passwd [Options...] [LOGIN]

DESCRIPTION
    The passwd utility changes the user's local, Kerberos, or NIS password.
    If the user is not the super-user, passwd first prompts for the current
    password and will not continue unless the correct password is entered.	

OPTIONS
   -a, --all                    This option can be used only with -S and causes show status for all users.

   -d, --delete                 Delete a user’s password (make it empty). This is a quick way to disable
                                a password for an account. It will set the named account passwordless.

   -e, --expire                 Immediately expire an account’s password. This in effect can force a
                                user to change their password at the user’s next login.

   -h, --help                   Display help message and exit.

   -i, --inactive INACTIVE      This option is used to disable an account after the password has been
                                expired for a number of days. After a user account has had an expired
                                password for INACTIVE days, the user may no longer sign on to the account.

   -k, --keep-tokens            Indicate password change should be performed only for expired authentication
                                tokens (passwords). The user wishes to keep their non-expired tokens as before.

   -l, --lock                   Lock the password of the named account. This option disables a  password by
                                changing it to a value which matches no possible encrypted value
                                (it adds a '!' at the beginning of the password).

                                Note that this does not disable the account. The user may still be able to
                                login using another authentication token (e.g. an SSH key).
                                To disable the account, administrators should use usermod --expiredate 1
                                (this sets the account’s expire date to Jan 2, 1970).

                                Users with a locked password are not allowed to change their password.

   -n, --mindays MIN_DAYS       Set the minimum number of days between password changes to MIN_DAYS.
                                A value of zero for this field indicates that the user may change their
                                password at any time.

   -q, --quiet                  Quiet mode.

   -r, --repository REPOSITORY  Change password in REPOSITORY repository.

   -R, --root CHROOT_DIR        Apply changes in the CHROOT_DIR directory and use the configuration files
                                from the CHROOT_DIR directory.

   -S, --status                 Display account status information. The status information consists of
                                7 fields. The first field is the user’s login name.
                                The second field indicates if the user account has a locked password (L),
                                has no password (NP), or has a usable password (P).
                                The third field gives the date of the last password change. The next four
                                fields are the minimum age, maximum age, warning period, and inactivity period
                                for the password. These ages are expressed in days.

   -u, --unlock                 Unlock the password of the named account. This option re-enables a password
                                by changing the password back to its previous value (to the value before using -l).

   -w, --warndays WARN_DAYS     Set the number of days of warning before a password change is required.
                                The WARN_DAYS option is the number of days prior to the password expiring
                                that a user will be warned that their password is about to expire.

   -x, --maxdays MAX_DAYS       Set the maximum number of days a password remains valid. After MAX_DAYS, the 
                                password is required to be changed.

EXAMPLE
    passwd
    passwd username
    passwd -l username

AUTHOR
    Written by David MacKenzie.

REPORTING BUG
    Report bugs to <bug-shadow@gnu.org>.

SEE ALSO
    passwd - GNU Coreutils Documentation: https://www.gnu.org/software/coreutils/manual/html_node/passwd-invocation.html

COPYRIGHT
    Copyright © 2024 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

COLOPHON
    This is free software; see the source for copying conditions. There is NO warranty; 
    not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
