NAME
    top - display Linux tasks

DESCRIPTION
    The top command provides a dynamic, real-time view of the running system. It displays a list of processes and their resource usage.

SYNOPSIS
    top [OPTION]...

OPTIONS
 Options
   -b   		Run in batch mode; don’t accept command-line input.
        		Useful for sending output to another command or to a file.
   -c   		Show command line in display instead of just command name.
   -d delay		Specify delay between refreshes.
   -i   		Suppress display of idle and zombie processes.
   -n num		Update display num times, then exit.
   -p pid		Monitor only processes with the specified process ID.
   -q   		Refresh without any delay.
        		If user is privileged, run with highest priority.
   -s   		Secure mode. Disable some (dangerous) interactive commands.
   -S   		Cumulative mode. Print total CPU time of each process, including dead child processes.

Interactive commands

space    		Update display immediately.
  A      		Sort by age, with newest first.
  c      		Toggle display of command name or full command line.
  f, F   		Add fields to display or remove fields from the display.
  h, ?   		Display help about commands and the status of secure and cumulative modes.
  k      		Prompt for process ID to kill and signal to send (default is 15) to kill it.
  i      		Toggle suppression of idle and zombie processes.
  l      		Toggle display of load average and uptime information.
 ^L      		Redraw screen.
  m      		Toggle display of memory information.
  M      		Sort tasks by resident memory usage.
  n, #   		Prompt for number of processes to show. 
  N      		Sort numerically by process ID.
  o, O   		Change order of displayed fields.
  P      		Sort tasks by CPU usage (default).
  q      		Exit.
  r      		Apply renice to a process. Prompt for PID and renice value. Suppressed in secure mode.
  s      		Change delay between refreshes. 
  S      		Toggle cumulative mode. (See the -S option.)
  t      		Toggle display of processes and CPU states information.
  T      		Sort tasks by time/cumulative time.
  W      		Write current setup to ~/.toprc. This is the recommended way to write a top configuration file.

EXAMPLE
    top
    top -d 5
    top -u username

AUTHOR
    Written by William LeFebvre and others.

REPORTING BUG
    Report bugs to <linux-kernel@vger.kernel.org>.

SEE ALSO
    top - Linux Manual Page: https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man1/top.1.html

COPYRIGHT
    Copyright © 2024 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

COLOPHON
    This is free software; see the source for copying conditions. There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
